README.md, before:

- [NviWatch](#nviwatch)
  - [Demo](#demo)
  - [Default Mode](#default-mode)
  - [Bar Mode](#bar-mode)
  - [Tabbed Mode: GPU graphs in tabs for multi GPU nodes](#tabbed-mode-gpu-graphs-in-tabs-for-multi-gpu-nodes)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Key Bindings](#key-bindings)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)


# NviWatch

NviWatch is an interactive terminal user interface (TUI) application for monitoring NVIDIA GPU devices and processes. Built with Rust, it provides real-time insights into GPU performance metrics, including temperature, utilization, memory usage, and power consumption.

## Demo

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/176565fe-4467-4129-b783-071543c52bf4

## Default Mode 
![](assets/default_mode.png)

## Bar Mode
![](assets/bar_mode.png)

## Tabbed Mode: GPU graphs in tabs for multi GPU nodes
![](assets/tabbed_mode.png)

## Features

- **Real-Time Monitoring**: View real-time data on GPU temperature, utilization, memory usage, and power consumption.
- **Process Management**: Monitor processes running on the GPU and terminate them directly from the interface.
- **Graphical Display**: Visualize GPU performance metrics using bar charts and tabbed graphs.
- **Customizable Refresh Rate**: Set the refresh interval for updating GPU metrics.

## Installation

To build and run NviWatch, ensure you have Rust and Cargo installed on your system. You will also need the NVIDIA Management Library (NVML) available.

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/nviwatch.git
   cd nviwatch
   ```

2. Build the project:
   ```bash
   cargo build --release
   ```

3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   chmod +x ./target/release/nviwatch
   ./target/release/nviwatch
   ```
   Note: You can also download the binary from the release page. And follow these steps if you don't want to build from source.

## Usage

NviWatch provides a command-line interface with several options:

- `-w, --watch <MILLISECONDS>`: Set the refresh interval in milliseconds. Default is 100 ms.
- `-t, --tabbed-graphs`: Display GPU graphs in a tabbed view.
- `-b, --bar-chart`: Display GPU graphs as bar charts.

Example:
```bash
./nviwatch --watch 500 --tabbed-graphs
```

## Key Bindings

- **q**: Quit the application.
- **↑/↓**: Navigate through the list of processes.
- **←/→**: Switch between GPU tabs (when using tabbed graphs).
- **x**: Terminate the selected process.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request for any improvements or bug fixes.

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) and [Ratatui](https://github.com/ratatui/ratatui).
- Utilizes the [NVIDIA Management Library (NVML)](https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-management-library-nvml) via the [nvml_wrapper crate](https://docs.rs/nvml-wrapper/latest/nvml_wrapper/).

Commit message:

update readme to include pre built binary information

README.md, after:

- [NviWatch](#nviwatch)
  - [Demo](#demo)
  - [Default Mode](#default-mode)
  - [Bar Mode](#bar-mode)
  - [Tabbed Mode: GPU graphs in tabs for multi GPU nodes](#tabbed-mode-gpu-graphs-in-tabs-for-multi-gpu-nodes)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installing and Using the Tool](#installing-and-using-the-tool)
    - [Option 1: Download Pre-built Binary](#option-1-download-pre-built-binary)
    - [Option 2: Build from Source](#option-2-build-from-source)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Key Bindings](#key-bindings)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)


# NviWatch

NviWatch is an interactive terminal user interface (TUI) application for monitoring NVIDIA GPU devices and processes. Built with Rust, it provides real-time insights into GPU performance metrics, including temperature, utilization, memory usage, and power consumption.

## Demo

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/176565fe-4467-4129-b783-071543c52bf4

## Default Mode 
![](assets/default_mode.png)

## Bar Mode
![](assets/bar_mode.png)

## Tabbed Mode: GPU graphs in tabs for multi GPU nodes
![](assets/tabbed_mode.png)

## Features

- **Real-Time Monitoring**: View real-time data on GPU temperature, utilization, memory usage, and power consumption.
- **Process Management**: Monitor processes running on the GPU and terminate them directly from the interface.
- **Graphical Display**: Visualize GPU performance metrics using bar charts and tabbed graphs.
- **Customizable Refresh Rate**: Set the refresh interval for updating GPU metrics.

## Installing and Using the Tool

### Option 1: Download Pre-built Binary

1. Go to the project's GitHub repository.
2. Navigate to the "Releases" section.
3. Download the latest binary release for linux.
4. Once downloaded, open a terminal and navigate to the directory containing the downloaded binary.
5. Make the binary executable with the following command:
   ```
   chmod +x nviwatch
   ```

6. You can now run the tool using:

   ```
   ./nviwatch
   ```

### Option 2: Build from Source

To build and run NviWatch, ensure you have Rust and Cargo installed on your system. You will also need the NVIDIA Management Library (NVML) available.

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/nviwatch.git
   cd nviwatch
   ```

2. Build the project:
   ```bash
   cargo build --release
   ```

3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   chmod +x ./target/release/nviwatch
   ./target/release/nviwatch
   ```
   Note: You can also download the binary from the release page. And follow these steps if you don't want to build from source.

## Usage

NviWatch provides a command-line interface with several options:

- `-w, --watch <MILLISECONDS>`: Set the refresh interval in milliseconds. Default is 100 ms.
- `-t, --tabbed-graphs`: Display GPU graphs in a tabbed view.
- `-b, --bar-chart`: Display GPU graphs as bar charts.

Example:
```bash
./nviwatch --watch 500 --tabbed-graphs
```

## Key Bindings

- **q**: Quit the application.
- **↑/↓**: Navigate through the list of processes.
- **←/→**: Switch between GPU tabs (when using tabbed graphs).
- **x**: Terminate the selected process.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request for any improvements or bug fixes.

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) and [Ratatui](https://github.com/ratatui/ratatui).
- Utilizes the [NVIDIA Management Library (NVML)](https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-management-library-nvml) via the [nvml_wrapper crate](https://docs.rs/nvml-wrapper/latest/nvml_wrapper/).
